history of java

Java is an Object-Oriented programming language developed by James Gosling 
in the early 1990s. The team initiated this project to develop a language 
for digital devices such as set-top boxes, television, etc. Originally C++ 
was considered to be used in the project but the idea was rejected for 
several reasons(For instance C++ required more memory). 
Gosling endeavoured to alter and expand C++ however before long surrendered
that for making another stage called Green. James Gosling and his team called 
their project “Greentalk” and its file extension was .gt and later became to 
known as “OAK”.

Why “Oak”?
..........
The name Oak was used by Gosling after an oak tree that remained outside 
his office. Also, Oak is an image of solidarity and picked as a national tree 
of numerous nations like the U.S.A., France, Germany, Romania, etc. But they 
had to later rename it as “JAVA” as it was already a trademark by Oak 
Technologies. “JAVA” Gosling and his team did a brainstorm session and after 
the session, they came up with several names such as JAVA, DNA, SILK, RUBY, 
etc. Java name was decided after much discussion since it was so unique.

The name Java originates from a sort of espresso bean, Java. Gosling came
up with this name while having a coffee near his office. Java was created 
on the principles like Robust, Portable, Platform Independent, High Performance,
 Multithread, etc. and was called one of the Ten Best Products of 1995 by the 
 TIME MAGAZINE. Currently, Java is used in internet programming, mobile devices, 
 games, e-business solutions, etc. If you here, then it might be possible that 
 you are interested in learning Java programming, explore free Java course to 
 get full in-depth knowledge of Java.

The Java language has experienced a few changes since JDK 1.0 just as various 
augmentations of classes and packages to the standard library. In Addition to 
the language changes, considerably more sensational changes have been made to 
the Java Class Library throughout the years, which has developed from a couple 
of hundred classes in JDK 1.0 to more than three thousand in J2SE 5. 

