What are the Java Operators?

Operators in Java are the symbols used for performing specific operations in Java. 
Operators make tasks like addition, multiplication, etc which look easy 
although the implementation of these tasks is quite complex.
Types of Operators in Java

There are multiple types of operators in Java all are mentioned below:

  1  Arithmetic Operators
  2  Unary Operators
  3  Assignment Operator
  4  Relational Operators
  5  Logical Operators
  6  Ternary Operator
  7  Bitwise Operators
  8  Shift Operators
  9  instance of operator

1 Arithmetic Operators
----------------------
They are used to perform simple arithmetic operations on primitive and non-primitive data types. 

    * : Multiplication
    / : Division
    % : Modulo
    + : Addition
    – : Subtraction

2 Unary Operators
-----------------
Unary operators need only one operand. They are used to increment, decrement, or negate a value. 

    – : Unary minus, used for negating the values.
    + : Unary plus indicates the positive value (numbers are positive without this, however). 
  It performs an automatic conversion to int when the type of its operand is the byte, char, or short. 
  This is called unary numeric promotion.
    ++ : Increment operator, used for incrementing the value by 1. There are two varieties of increment operators. 
        Post-Increment: Value is first used for computing the result and then incremented.
        Pre-Increment: Value is incremented first, and then the result is computed.
    – –  : Decrement operator, used for decrementing the value by 1. There are two varieties of decrement operators. 
        Post-decrement: Value is first used for computing the result and then decremented.
        Pre-Decrement: The value is decremented first, and then the result is computed.
    ! : Logical not operator, used for inverting a boolean value.

3  Assignment Operator
----------------------
 ‘=’ Assignment operator is used to assign a value to any variable. It has right-to-left associativity, 
i.e. value given on the right-hand side of the operator is assigned to the variable on the left, 
and therefore right-hand side value must be declared before using it or should be a constant. 

The general format of the assignment operator is:

variable = value;

In many cases, the assignment operator can be combined with other operators to build a shorter version of 
the statement called a Compound Statement. For example, instead of a = a+5, we can write a += 5. 

    +=, for adding the left operand with the right operand and then assigning it to the variable on the left.
    -=, for subtracting the right operand from the left operand and then assigning it to the variable on the left.
    *=, for multiplying the left operand with the right operand and then assigning it to the variable on the left.
    /=, for dividing the left operand by the right operand and then assigning it to the variable on the left.
    %=, for assigning the modulo of the left operand by the right operand and then assigning it to the variable on the left.

4 Relational Operators
----------------------
These operators are used to check for relations like equality, greater than, and less than. 
They return boolean results after the comparison and are extensively used in looping statements 
as well as conditional if-else statements. The general format is, 

variable relation_operator value

Some of the relational operators are- 

    ==, Equal to returns true if the left-hand side is equal to the right-hand side.
    !=, Not Equal to returns true if the left-hand side is not equal to the right-hand side.
    <, less than: returns true if the left-hand side is less than the right-hand side.
    <=, less than or equal to returns true if the left-hand side is less than or equal to the right-hand side.
    >, Greater than: returns true if the left-hand side is greater than the right-hand side.
    >=, Greater than or equal to returns true if the left-hand side is greater than or equal to the right-hand side.

5 Logical Operators
-------------------
These operators are used to perform “logical AND” and “logical OR” operations, 
i.e., a function similar to AND gate and OR gate in digital electronics. 
One thing to keep in mind is the second condition is not evaluated if the first one is false, 
i.e., it has a short-circuiting effect. Used extensively to test for several conditions 
for making a decision. Java also has “Logical NOT”, which returns true when the condition is false and vice-versa

Conditional operators are:

    &&, Logical AND: returns true when both conditions are true.
    ||, Logical OR: returns true if at least one condition is true.
    !, Logical NOT: returns true when a condition is false and vice-versa

6 Ternary operator
------------------
The ternary operator is a shorthand version of the if-else statement. It has three operands and hence the name Ternary.

The general format is:

condition ? if true : if false

The above statement means that if the condition evaluates to true, 
then execute the statements after the ‘?’ else execute the statements after the ‘:’.  

7  Bitwise Operators
--------------------
These operators are used to perform the manipulation of individual bits of a number. 
They can be used with any of the integer types. They are used when performing update 
and query operations of the Binary indexed trees. 

    &, Bitwise AND operator: returns bit by bit AND of input values.
    |, Bitwise OR operator: returns bit by bit OR of input values.
    ^, Bitwise XOR operator: returns bit-by-bit XOR of input values.
    ~, Bitwise Complement Operator: This is a unary operator which returns the one’s complement 
        representation of the input value, i.e., with all bits inverted.

8 Shift Operators
-----------------
These operators are used to shift the bits of a number left or right, thereby multiplying or dividing 
the number by two, respectively. They can be used when we have to multiply or divide a number by two. 
General format- 

 number shift_op number_of_places_to_shift;

    <<, Left shift operator: shifts the bits of the number to the left and fills 0 on voids left 
as a result. Similar effect as multiplying the number with some power of two.
    >>, Signed Right shift operator: shifts the bits of the number to the right and fills 0 on voids left as a result. 
The leftmost bit depends on the sign of the initial number. Similar effect to dividing the number with some power of two.
    >>>, Unsigned Right shift operator: shifts the bits of the number to the right and fills 0 on voids left as a result. 
The leftmost bit is set to 0.

9 instanceof operator
-----------------------
The instance of the operator is used for type checking. It can be used to test if an object 
is an instance of a class, a subclass, or an interface. General format- 

object instance of class/subclass/interface
